### 2. What is the shell?

A program which makes it easier to run other programs.

A textual interface between the user and the kernel.

It interprets commands and runs programs.

You can think of it as the CLI.


#### What is the kernel and how does the shell interact with it?

The kernel of UNIX is the hub of the operating system: it allocates time and memory to programs and handles the filestore and communications in response to system calls.

The shell interprets the user's command and tells the kernel what to do.


#### What is the difference between the shell and the terminal?

Bash is a shell, iTerm is a terminal.

The terminal is the program that allows you to interact with the shell.

#### What terminal should I be using?

Your computer comes with a pre-installed terminal, but you can install others.

iTerm2 is a popular choice for Mac users.

#### What shell should I be using?

Bash and Zsh are the most popular shells. Both come pre-installed. 

If you want to use Bash, you should probably download the latest version with `brew install bash` - the version shipped with macOS is quite old.

Zsh is a more modern shell, and is the default shell on recent macOS versions.

#### How can I customise my shell? (.rc files, aliases)

You can customise your shell by editing the `.rc` files in your home directory.

`.bashrc` is the Bash configuration file, `.zshrc` is the Zsh configuration file.

You can add aliases to your `.rc` files to make it easier to run commands. These are mainly used as shortcuts. Alternatively, you can use functions.

### Visual material

* [OS Diagram](../visuals/os-diagram.png)